So for some parts of user interfaces,
we wanna keep the user's
focus in a certain area.
And this is called a keyboard trap.
And we don't wanna do it unintentionally.
[LAUGH] We wanna do this for
certain components.
Like, if you're in a modal,
that's a good use case.
Any kind of new layer
that comes over the top.
I've seen entire apps where it's all
layers upon layers, upon layers,
we wanna definitely keep users
from going outside of that layer.
And so
that's what's called a keyboard trap.
But sometimes it's unintentional.
Have you ever tried to navigate a code pen
with a keyboard and you get into the text
area, and you hit the tab key and
it just keeps, you're in a text editor.
You can't get out.
That's a tab trap.
And you have to be kind of creative in
how you set that up to not have that be
a problem.
So one thing you could do,
just as an authoring tool developer,
would be to wire up the escape key or some
way to get in and out of that edit mode so
that keyboard users have a way to skip by
it and they have a way to get in and out.
So, keyboard traps.
And there is a criterion in MCAG,
it's level A, called No Keyboard Traps.
It has some great information on
what's acceptable and what's not.
We just don't wanna do
this unintentionally.
So here is an example of what a keyboard
trap looks like, an intentional one.
So this stack blitz,
I'm going to open in a new window.
So I've got a library in
here called react-aria.
It's pretty awesome.
It's a little bit of an advanced tool,
I would say.
But I can create what's
called a focus scope.
So that's the easiest
focus trap I've ever seen.
It's a component that I can pull in, wrap
it around the code that I want to contain
at the right time, and I didn't even
have to write the actual focus trap.
But let's see how that works,
cuz we should know.
So if I open this layer,
there are some focusable items in here.
There's two inputs and a Close button.
So it's not styled really at all,
but my focus just cycles
between these controls, so
between the inputs and the buttons.
So you can imagine if
this was in a new layer,
it would be pretty effective at
keeping my focus in that content.
Let's see what it actually put into
the page, cuz that's pretty magical.
There's content next to it, though.
That's really what I wanna look at,
is there is an open button, and
sure, my keyword focus was trapped, but
can I get behind there somehow
if it was a modal layer?
If I was a screen reader user, is the rest
of the stuff all still reachable?
It probably is.
So this element that it input is
a div with all of our stuff in it,
and I think it just has some
JavaScript to cycle you around.
So in our previous example, we got
pretty nerdy with the inert attribute.
This is another case where
if you had a modal layer and
you were creating a focus scope,
you could use inert on any background
content to keep screen reader users
from being able to reach back there.
Cuz right now all we're doing
is the JavaScript part, but
we're talking about focus,
so it's relevant.
But that's what a focus trap does,
is it keeps you kind of in
that set of components, and
that's pretty easy to do, at least if
you can use the React ARIA focus scope.
There's probably other libraries too,
other utilities that you could pull in.
Kind of observing their approach,
is that they have elements before and
after what we've inserted.
And so that gives us some signposts for
the code underneath this that
makes that work, is whenever focus
gets out of the items that you inserted,
it just loops in around again.
They just kind of control where
your focus goes and send it back.
Question.
>> I see they shared
a very cool tip in chat.
If you open up Chrome DevTools and
you hit the I, and
then put in document.active.element,
that's a live expression,
and you can see what
element is actually active.
>> Cool, that's awesome.
>> So now as you move around,
it'll just live update right there.
>> Sweet, that's cool.
Yeah, I have seen that before and
I forgot about it, so thank you.
Chrome DevTools is amazing.
Cool, so focus traps.
And, yeah, it kinda gives us techniques
that we can use to keep people
from getting stuck behind those layers.
So do you need inert backgrounds?
I think a good answer to this question is
just how easy would it be to implement.
It works best when you have a sibling.
So say I have modal content,
if it's buried in my content in the DOM
somewhere, it's gonna be really
hard to use inert because the modal
content is amongst everything else.
Whereas if the modal and,
say, main are siblings and
there's some separation,
I could put inert on the main element and
that will keep that in the background and
then my modal will live separately.
You just have to pay attention to
where your content that needs to stay
on top that should be reachable and
accessible and trapped.
That should be not inert.
[LAUGH] That's the stuff
we wanna navigate with.
So I think sometimes
the keyboard trap can be enough.
I think you really wanna test it and
a screen reader.
Yeah, it's part of the story but
a worthy technique.
Keyboard shortcuts.
So let's talk briefly
about keyboard shortcuts.
They can be helpful.
So if you have UI actions,
especially if the shortcut takes a lot
more work than what a mouse user could do,
like the accessible,
say you can do the same task but
it takes a bit more effort, a keyboard
shortcut could be a good use case.
And we have quite a few built in,
like Command+F for finding, Command+P for
print, those are keyboard shortcuts
that are built into the platform, or
Ctrl+P on a Windows machine.
But custom keyboard shortcuts
can be useful in web apps.
And so there are a couple of libraries
that could make this easier.
There's one from Arthur Beaulieu and
Jon Kuperman.
And so you can check those out.
They're both named Shortcut.js, [LAUGH]
popular name for that type of tool.
But what that can help you
do is manage meta keys.
So if I have combinations of keys,
it takes a little bit of trickery
to match that combination.
It's not impossible, but sometimes
using a little utility makes it easier.
And so we can create those shortcuts.
So there's two things that
I want you to be aware of.
One, is that shortcuts
need to be discoverable.
If we put all this effort and dev work
into creating shortcuts that nobody
knows about,
it might be a little bit of a waste.
So, put them in your help documentation.
I think Facebook had a cool approach
at one point where they had
an accessibility nav bar that would
pop up at the top of the page when you
started to use the keyboard.
I don't know if it's still there, but
some way to tell users that you have these
keyboard shortcuts,
if there's a little help icon on the page.
Make them easy to find cuz
they're gonna be really niche and
maybe not used that much otherwise.
Put them on your accessibility docs or
on an accessibility statement.
And then the other thing I want you
to know about keyboard shortcuts is,
watch out for
conflicts with screen reader commands.
So especially on Windows, there
are common key commands already in place.
Like the H key,
that will cycle through headings.
So you don't wanna just use plain
letters for your shortcuts, [LAUGH].
They need to be kind of unique.
So yeah, just something to be aware of,
that screen reader commands
need to still work.